---
title: 'Glossary'
tag: 'glossary'
category: 'modal'
---
###Focus areas
Group of associated activities based on changing conditions and demands for programme support from developing countries, e.g. reducing human poverty, fostering democratic governance, managing energy and environment for sustainable development, supporting crisis prevention and recovery, responding to HIV/AIDS). The number in brackets indicates how many outputs are linked to each focus area.

###Country Offices 
The focal point for UNDP activities in a country responsible for serving requests to support programme activity, which includes implementing agreements in collaboration with the relevant national institutions international partner agencies, and other development partners.

###Funding Sources
Project funds are financial resources mobilized from various sources to be used for project activities as defined in the project work plan. UNDP resources and funding mechanisms are comprised of two main categories: “Regular Resources” (co-mingled and untied, includes voluntary contributions, contributions from other governmental, intergovernmental or non-governmental sources, and related interest and miscellaneous revenue.); and “Other Resources” (for specific programme purposes.)  

###Projects 
Management structure around a set of development support activities aimed at bringing about clearly specified outputs within a defined time-period and with a defined budget. 

###Budget
A spending plan based on a results and resources framework, reflecting input costs required to produce specific outputs.

###Expenditure
Costs directly incurred on behalf of a project, either through direct support for nationally implemented projects or direct implementation; includes cost of goods delivered, services rendered, total employee benefits, and depreciation of fixed assets.  

###Project start date
Date on which either the implementation of the project activity begins or the date on which the project participant has committed to expenditures related to the implementation of the project activity.

###Project end date
Date on which a project is operationally and financially closed.

###Aid classification
The Creditor Reporting System (CRS) is a comprehensive, authoritative database which provides consistent and coherent information about aid spending by the OECD’s Development Assistance Committee, EU Institutions and other international organizations and private donors. The number in brackets indicates how many outputs are linked to each classification.

###Implementing organization
Name of institution responsible for managing the project, achieving project outputs, and managing project resources.  

###Operating Unit
All country, regional, or headquarters offices that have individual budgets and reporting responsibilities.

###Gender marker
The Gender Marker measures the degree to which UNDP outputs and projects address gender equality and empowerment of women and girls or reduce discrimination and inequalities based on sex. The number in brackets indicates how many outputs are linked to each gender marker.