---
title: 'Frequently Asked Questions'
tag: 'FAQ'
category: 'about'
---
__Q. What is IATI?__  
A. The International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI) is a voluntary multi-stakeholder initiative aimed at boosting development cooperation transparency through public disclosure of detailed and timely information on  volume, development results, and information to help countries manage their resources effectively with a view to achieving better development results. Signatories to IATI include donors, partner countries, and civil society organizations (CSOs) who support the transparency commitments described in the [IATI Accra Statement](http://www.aidtransparency.net/wp-content/uploads/2009/06/iati-accra-statement-p1.pdf). For more information about IATI, please visit the [IATI website](http://www.aidtransparency.net/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/IATI-country-paper-overview-final.pdf). 

__Q. How does transparency improve aid effectiveness?__  
A. A common global standard for the publication of development cooperation data will make information about development spending easier to access, understand, and use.  Groups involved in development programmes are calling for greater accountability and for more government openness, and are growing intolerant of obstacles that limit their access to meaningful information. Among them are CSOs and citizens in developing countries who want to know how their governments are delivering services; finance ministries in developing countries who want to improve budget planning; anti-corruption campaigners who argue that transparency will reduce fraud and misappropriation; and taxpayers who have a stake in knowing how their money is spent. By tracking development spending and the results it is achieving, we get greater accountability and better operational efficiency.

__Q. Which and how many donors contribute to UNDP’s development efforts?__  
A. Worldwide, UNDP development projects are sourced by some thousand funders, among them: businesses, civil society organizations, foundations, governments, government agencies, international financial institutions, and individuals.  

__Q. What should I do if I can’t find a project?__  
A. Project information is available in one of the six UN official languages (English, Spanish, French, Arabic, Russian, and Chinese). In a few cases, project information is available in a language other than one of the six UN official languages. We suggest you search by country or perform an advanced search in the local language. Contact [UNDP Transparency Team](#about/contactinfo) if you need further help.

__Q. Who is involved in IATI?__  
A. Full membership is open to any entity that commits to the aims and objectives of the initiative. IATI also involves CSOs, IFIs, businesses, parliamentarians and experts. As of November 2013, 195 donors, partner countries, multilateral organizations, international funds and CSOs had signed up to the IATI. Among them are the Asian Development Bank, the Netherlands, Germany, Australia, New Zealand, Spain, Norway, Finland, Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, the European Commission, the World Bank, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Hewlett Foundation, the GAVI Alliance, GEF, the UK, and a growing number of UN agencies, including UNDP. [View list of publishers](http://www.iatiregistry.org/publisher).   

__Q. Who governs IATI?__  
A. IATI is governed by a multi-stakeholder steering committee including representatives from bilateral, multilateral and non-traditional donors, experts in aid information and statistics, partner countries and civil society organizations. As of August 2013, the initiative has a multi-stakeholder Secretariat comprising UNDP, UNOPS, the governments of Sweden and Ghana, and Development Initiatives.

__Q. What actions have UNDP taken toward adoption of IATI standards?__  
A. UNDP started publishing project information based on IATI standard in 2011. In 2012, UNDP has scaled-up implementation of IATI by publishing an expanded dataset with detailed information on over 6,000 development projects in 177 countries and territories worldwide, and leading outreach efforts to 34 developing countries and UN agencies, along with corporate efforts toward enhancing transparency. As a signatory of IATI and co-host of its Secretariat, in 2013 UNDP consolidated and built on these achievements by publishing quarterly project-level information, including sub-national geolocation and additional activity-level financial attributes; and reviewing and updating its [Information Disclosure Policy](http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/operations/transparency/information_disclosurepolicy.html). UNDP will strive to fulfill its commitment to transparency above and beyond international standards while ensuring IATI relevance to both donors and recipients of development cooperation.

__Q. What will be the impact for users of UNDP information?__  
A. IATI requires a standard format for publication to make it easy to access and share through an internationally-agreed-upon, open, common XML format. This enables more people to access, compare, and combine it with other data sources to meet individual needs. The IATI registry will index the data, which will act as a central reference point for all information published by IATI signatories.

__Q. Why do some projects have negative expenditure?__  
A. Some projects show negative numbers for expenditures. In these instances, the projects are likely being managed at a different level or are undergoing accounting reconciliation. For instance, in some cases financial management is at the Fund level (such as for Trust Funds) rather than the Project level so adjustments made within a Fund can lead to negative expenditures being displayed.

__Q. Why do some projects have end dates in the past?__  
A. Projects with end dates in the past are operationally-closed projects that were financially closed in 2011 as part of the adoption of the [Institute for International Public Sector Accounting Standards](http://www.ipsas.org/en/ipsas_standards.htm) (IPSAS). Any transactions shown are accounting entries made to facilitate this change or to reconcile accounts. All UNDP units have done their best to indicate that these are closed projects, noting the end date for activities and their present status.  As the IPSAS process takes full effect in the organization, closed projects will no longer appear.

__Q. What types of projects are available in open.undp.org?__  
A. Open.undp.org comprises data and information for active development projects and those that were financially closed in 2011. A small number of projects in open.undp.org are not development projects per se; instead, they support development activities (e.g. staff salaries and operational costs, strengthening the capacity of the Resident Coordinator´s Office, etc). Country Offices have done their best to indicate these types of projects in the project title and/or description field. Project documents are not available in these cases.

__Q. How are open.undp.org projects geolocated?__  
A. Project locations are based on the IATI standard and are classified by ‘location type’ and ‘precision of project site’.  Location type refers to the category of the location: ADM1 (region or province), ADM2 (district and major cities), RES (reserves, rivers, sea), PCL (political capital) or PPLA/PPLA2/PPLC/PPL (city, municipality, town, village). Precision of project site refers to the level of accuracy of where the project is actually implemented: country, province, region, district, city, town, village, district, or street. Subnational visualization has been expanded to show where projects are being implemented across the country. Visualization includes clustering by location and filtering by coordinate accuracy. Activities of a project are mapped and included in the overall country view.

__Q. Are there any restrictions or charges for using data in open.undp.org?__  
A. All data in open.undp.org can be used free of charge and has CC-by license (see [Creative Commons Attribution License](http://iatistandard.org/getting-started/licencing/licence-types))

__Q. Can I access this website using any browser?__  
A. Yes, open.undp.org is accessible by all web browsers equivalent to Internet Explorer 7 and above. The web site has been optimized for [Google Chrome](http://www.google.com/chrome/intl/en/landing_chrome.html).

__Q. Who should I contact if I have a question about the projects and the tools in open.undp.org?__  
A. For information about individual projects and IATI publishing tools used in this website, contact [UNDP Transparency Team](#about/contactinfo)
